# Numerical simulation of Bingham fluid flow by an augmented Lagrangian method

The first model used to describe the motion of a fluid flow is due to **Leonhard Euler** in 1755. His model was already a good one, but it does not explain the motion of every fluid flow. In particular, it is linked with the concept of "perfect fluid", in the sense that the viscosity is absent. A more complete model for viscous fluid was introduced independently by **Navier** et **Stokes** in the begining of the XIX century. This later model involves an interaction between the viscosity and inertial forces. If inertial forces dominate over the viscous effects, the model leads to the Euler equations. If the viscous effects dominate, it becomes a linear model also called Stokes equations.

Navier-Stokes equations is one of the most important tool of fluid mechanics, but not the only one. In particular, they cannot explain the motion of a fluid flow when the continuous hypothesis does not hold, for instance for fluid flow in rarefied atmosphere or at small scale, i.e. microfluidic gaz. In these cases, we can use kinetic models such as the Boltzmann equations. However, even when the continuum hypothesis hold, there are situations where the Navier-Stokes equations must be modified.

Typically, there is a linear relationship between the **stress tensor** and the **strain tensor**, we will talk about **Newtonian fluids**. Depending on the nature of the fluid, this relationship could become nonlinear, in which case we talk about **non-Newtonian fluids**. The domain of science that studies non-Newtonian fluids is called **rheology**. It was introduced by  **Eugene Cook Bingham** in 1920. Different aspect of non-Newtonian fluids was given his name. A **Bingham fluid** is a type of **non-Newtonian fluid** that behaves like a rigid body at low stress levels and flows like a viscous fluid when the applied stress exceeds a certain threshold, known as the **yield stress**. This behavior of a Bingham fluid is also known as **Bingham law**.

The numerical scheme implemented in this code uses an augmented-Lagrangian method to compute the velocity profile of a Bingham fluid in a Poiseuille configuration. That is, the fluid flows through a circular pipe and is only driven by a pressure drop between the intake and outake of the pipe.

For more information about the numerical simulation of Bingham viscoplastic flow, please refer to the following [On the numerical simulation of Bingham visco-plastic flow: Old and new results](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0377025706002436)
